Overview:
Steven A. Ballmer is Chief Executive Officer of Microsoft. Ballmer joined Microsoft in 1980 and was the first business manager hired by Bill Gates. Since then, Ballmer&#8217;s leadership and passion have become hallmarks of his tenure at the company.

During the past 20 years, Ballmer has headed several Microsoft divisions, including operations, operating systems development, and sales and support. In July 1998, he was promoted to President, a role that gave him day-to-day responsibility for running Microsoft. He was named CEO in January 2000, assuming full management responsibility for the company, which includes delivering on the company&#8217;s mission of enabling people and businesses throughout the world to realize their full potential.

Together with Gates and the company&#8217;s other business and technical leaders, Ballmer is focused on continuing Microsoft&#8217;s innovation and leadership across the company&#8217;s seven businesses. Microsoft&#8217;s goal is to provide an integrated platform to enable a seamless experience across a wide range of computing and non-PC devices and services.

Variously described as ebullient, focused, funny, passionate, sincere, hard-charging and dynamic, Ballmer has infused Microsoft with his own brand of energetic leadership, vision and spirit over the years.

Ballmer was born in March 1956, and grew up near Detroit, where his father worked as a manager at Ford Motor Co. He graduated from Harvard University with a bachelor&#8217;s degree in mathematics and economics. While in college, Ballmer managed the football team, worked on the Harvard Crimson newspaper as well as the university literary magazine, and lived down the hall from fellow sophomore Bill Gates. After college, he worked for two years at Procter &amp; Gamble Co. as an assistant product manager and, before joining Microsoft, attended Stanford University Graduate School of Business.

Education:
Harvard University

Work Experience:
Assistant Product Manager at Procter & Gamble
OS Develpoment at Microsoft

Things associated with Steve_Ballmer:
microsoft